-- Greeting profesor, I don't know if you'll actually read this but if you are this is a document I'll be makeing for all assigments in this class.
I'll be using them to to explain my thinking and contain some outlines I use to get an idea on what I be making and/or needing to complete the assigments.
If your ever curious about the decision I made in an assigment you will probably find some insight here.
This doc does not in any way interact or effect the project, I'm just using it to get my ideas down to help my thought process.


--sample data outline

const dashboardState = {
  tasks: [],
  notes: [], /didn't end up useing\
  selectedCategory: "all",
  theme: "light"
};

const task = {
  id: idnum
  completed: yes/no
  taskname: taskname
  category: taskcategory
  class: class
  duedate: duedate
}

--sample webpage outline

header

stats (how many active? how many complete? how many total task? etc)

form for new task

category filter / status filter

task list


-- Code explaination
Conceptually this is a rather simple assigment, create a dashboard that displays useful information to the user in one place and allow interaction.
I ended up making a homework/ Studen assigment tracker.
The file allows for a student to enter the Name of the assigment, Class it's for, the category it's in (math/science/etc), and the date it is due.

As for the 10 requirements I'll go through them one by one

1.Clear dashboard theme - The user should understand what your dashboard is for.
  keeping track of homework and assigments due
2. Central state object or array - Your app data should be stored in JavaScript using arrays, objects, or both.
  I use the dashboardState
3. At least 3 dashboard sections - Examples: task list, stats area, notes section, progress tracker, filter section, goal tracker, recent activity, or theme controls.
  I have stats, form_area, filters, and task all as sections
4. At least 3 major interactive features - Examples: add item, delete item, mark complete, edit item, filter items, sort items, update progress, add note, or reset data.
  Users can add task/assigments, delete them, mark them as complete, and filter them by class, category, or current status
5. Dynamic rendering from state - The page should update when your JavaScript data changes.
  any time changes to data are made the render function is called
6. User input handling - Your app should respond to forms, buttons, dropdowns, checkboxes, or other user actions.
  The user enters assigment information into a form and that data is used to create a task card, user can also use dropdowns to filter visible assigments
7. Validation or app rules - Prevent at least one invalid action, such as blank submissions, duplicate entries, invalid numbers, or missing selections.
  User are prevented from entering in empty data
8. Organized functions - Your JavaScript should be split into meaningful functions instead of one large block of code.
  several functions are used to prevent one large code block, the drawDashboard function could probably be split, but all the code within the function
  relates to the dashboard and what should be rendered
9. Polished CSS styling - Your app should look intentional, readable, and easy to use.
  Admittedly css remains an annoyance, I know how to style with css but making something pleasant to look at remains a goliath task.
  Due to being busy at work and life in general I spent the least amount of time on this project on the css.
  a lot of the styling was following a guide, but I like how it turned out (I was even able to use the ever classic white/blue color scheme I relied on in webscripting 1)
10. GitHub Pages deployment - Your project must work on your live GitHub Pages site and be linked from your main site or navigation.
  this is done

while localStorage is allowed, I did not make use of it for this project.

-- If I hand more time what would I add/change

-Use of localStorage to make the app fully usable

- sorting based on duedate

- smoothing out the filter function right now it's alitle crude

- searching for specifc assigments

- making added assigment more detailed

- allowing editing of assigments